# Semantic segmentation of Sen-2 LULC dataset using modified U-SegNet

## Abstarct
Environmental monitoring, urban planning, and resource management are forms of implementing SDG 15 (Sustainable Development Goals), which focus on protecting, restoring, and promoting the sustainable and efficient use of forests and terrestrial ecosystems. However, these efforts are hindered by the increasing phenomenon of urbanization, which causes damage to natural ecosystems. To conduct regular monitoring, it is necessary to have automated land use and land cover (LULC) mapping to prevent ecosystem damage. Nevertheless, the complex landscape and the subtle transitions between various LULC classes pose significant challenges for optimal segmentation. This research proposes a modification of the U-SegNet architecture, which combines two widely used deep learning segmentation architectures, SegNet and U-Net, to improve LULC mapping. This architecture features an encoder-decoder structure that integrates pooling indices (from SegNet) and skip connections (from U-Net) to generate and transmit spatial image information. The study successfully built the architecture and demonstrated that the proposed modified U-SegNet architecture improves segmentation performance, achieving an accuracy of 82% and an mIoU of 42% on the Sen-2 LULC dataset. Compared to the baseline U-SegNet architecture, these results outperform across all evaluation metrics: recall, precision, F1-score, accuracy, and mIoU by 19%, 13%, 19%, 11%, and 16%, respectively.
